# Cs-lab-160-Coffee-decorator
Cs Lab 160 Final Lab Coffee Decorator, allows the user to create a coffee from given options along with saving previous orders and editing a given inventory.
To start, the program istelf can be run two ways, take note that as of writing this, only one of them works.  Running the code through the main method of the Main class will generate the old user interface that has been left unedited. It will prompt you for information, and it's on you from there to pick what you want on your digital coffee.  Once you are done placing your order, you will be prompted to make another, should you choose to do so, you repeat the previous step, otherwise your receipt is printed and saved to the order log along side all other changes to the inventory made by your order before exiting.
The code itself contains quite a few files, starting with the top of the chaing we have the _interface_ Coffee, which serves as the base for the Espresso, BlackCoffee, and CoffeeDecorator classes.  Within Coffee, reside a few different blank method stubs to be overwritten in later methods implmenting Coffee.  From there we have the methods that do implement Coffee, which as were previously mentioned, BlackCoffee, Espresso, and CoffeeDecorator. BlackCoffee and Espresso both serve as the "base" so to speak for future coffee orders, as everything in later classes builds on and uses their methods.  They have "getCost()" "getIngredients()" and "printCoffee()" Which are all pretty self explanitory.  They each return the base variable or value stored within the base of your choice, as printCoffee() for Espresso wouldn't print "Black Coffee" aswell as the two costing different amounts. 
From there we have CoffeeDecorator, which easily has the most child classes. Naturally it shares it's methods with Espresso and Black Coffee as it too implements Coffee and overwrites it's methods. However, seeing as it has no values of it's own, what it instead does is stores the chosen base coffee object, being either espresso or black coffee, and calls their methods for it's own values. Afterwords we have CoffeeDecorator's many child classes.
For the sake of time, WhippedCream, Sugar, Milk and HotWater are all the same but with different values, calling on their parent class's methods whilst adding their values onto what is printed. I.e. super.getCost() + whatever the cost of this decorator is.  In most regards, WithFlavor is the same, but it has 3 options within it for the user to choose from, being represented by enums, which include 3 values: CARAMEL, MOCHA, and VANILLA.  The only fuctional difference made by the user's choice in this method is which flavor shows up on the reciept at the end of the order as they are all 3 the same cost. Statistics, whilst currently unfinished is intended to record the most popular combinations based on the orderlog.txt file stored alongside this program. Statistics also calculates the average cost of all orders recordered in the log, and can find the profits made / total cost of all orders placed between two dates selected as time periods.
Next we have the unholy amalgam of GUIs and Controllers along with the FXML folder and it's own mess. Currently it is possible to open the GUI associated with those classes, but it will not function correctly as for whatever reason that I've yet to find, all the toggle button variables I have implemented into the GUI are throwing nullpointer exceptions, but the regular buttons aren't? I'll figure it out soon enough and post an updated, fixed version.
Finally we circle back to the main class and method, hence renamed to CoffeeMain for a multitude of perfectly good reasons I lost somehwere in the process of making it. Regardless of that, main contains numerous methods to operate the program, and whilst all of them are already implemented within Main's main method, they should still be noted. First we have the read and write methods for the order log and inventory .txt files stored alongside the project files. They both used buffered writers and readers to scan what is within the files, which is then placed in a Treemap to be edited by the main method before being rewritten into the .txt files by buffered writers. Once the main buildOrder loop has finished and the inventory and logFiles have been updated, the code will finish, and as such, so will this read me file.
-note: Whilst writing this I believe i have found the issue with the GUI, so expect an update to fix this program sooner then expcted.
